# ASSESSMENT 6: Interview Practice Questions
Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. As a developer, I am creating a Rails application with a model called Cohort that has_many students, but OOPS! I forgot to add the foreign key. How can I fix this mistake? What is the name of the foreign key? Would the foreign key be on the Cohort model or the Student model?

  Your answer: In Rails the foreign key is automatically generated by Rails and does not need to be created like a regular attribute by the developer. This is a built-in way that Rails tries to standardize practices within the application. Foreign keys are part of the child table and are used to identify which row within the parent table the child has a relationship with. Going off the Cohort and Student model example, each unique instance of students within the Student model would be connected to their corresponding Cohort by the foreign key. The foreign key on the Student model refers to the primary key on the Cohort model.  

  Researched answer: To associate two tables a foreign key hs to be assigned in the belongs_to side of the association. So as in the example, the foreign key would be assigned to the Student model since the Cohort 'has_many' students and Student 'belongs_to' to Cohort model. To add a foreign key to the Student model you can do a migration using $ rails generate migration add_foreign_key :students, :cohorts, :string. The name of the foreign key should be cohorts_id.



2. Which RESTful routes must always be passed params? Why?

  Your answer: Create, Edit, Update and Delete requires params, because they are making active changes of the information within the database. Params are needed to explain exactly what it is going to change within the database. 

  Researched answer: Create, Edit, Update and Delete requires params, because they are making active changes of the information within the database. Params are needed to explain exactly what it is going to change within the database as well as create restrictions on what can or cannot be changed within the database to maintain an organized, accurate, and secure database structure. 



3. Name three rails generator commands. What is created by each?

  Your answer: $ rails generate controller ControllerName, generates a controller which processes information to return a view for the user. $ rails generate model ModelName, generates a model which is the name of a database with tables and rows. 

  Researched answer: The $rails generate controller command creates the controller which coordinates the interaction between the user, the view, and the model. The controller works like the brain as it is the center for which connections to all other points are made. It is responsible for routing external requests to internal actions.
  The $ rails generate model command creates the model which is the database of information stored in tables and rows. 
THe $ rails generate migration creates a new migration in the file, updating the database with changes. 


4. Consider the Rails routes below. What is the name of the controller method that would be called by each route? What action would each of the controller methods perform?

method="GET"    /students         students#index  - display all students

method="POST"   /students         students#create  - create a new student instance

method="GET"    /students/new     students#new  -return an HTML form for creating a new student instance

method="GET"    /students/2       students#show   - display a specific student from the database

method="GET"    /students/2/edit  students#edit   - return an HTML form for editing a student instance

method="PATCH"  /students/2       students#update   - update a specific student instance in the database

method="DELETE" /students/2       students#destroy  - delete a specific student in the database



5. As a developer, you are making an application to manage your to do list. Create 10 user stories that will help you get your application started. Read more about [user stories](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/user-stories).
1. As a user, I can vist a page called my list that takes a string as a parameter. I can see all my to do list items on this page. 
2. As a user, I can add five entries to the database via the Rails console.
3. As a user, I can add a new column to the database called task_status
4. As a user, I can mark my list as complete or incomplete under task_status
5. As a user, I can visit a page called updated list where new items can be added to the to do list.
6. As a user, I can vist a page called completed list that shows what items have been marked completed on the to do list. 
7. As a user, I can toggle between my list and all other pages back to the index page. 
8. As a user, I can click a button that will submit a new item to my to do list database.
9. As a user, when I add a list item I am redirected back to the home page.
10. As a user, I can delete list items from my list and be redirected to the home page. 